Chilled chablis , anyone ?
Lightly iced vines lined a paddock near Orange yesterday , as NSW continued to shiver through some of the coldest July conditions for 21 years .

And the big chill is not quite over yet , though the state will finally begin to see some warmer weather at the weekend .

Temperatures yesterday did not quite equal the 21-year low of Monday night , when one weather station at Thredbo was colder than Australia's base in Antarctica , but they remained exceedingly crisp .

Yesterday morning , a brisk wind from the Tasman Sea brought temperatures around Sydney Airport down to minus 0.6 degrees .
Charlotte Pass was the state 's chilliest point on Tuesday night , with a reading of minus 9 degrees .

The wind chill also caused temperatures of 1.1 degrees in Bankstown and 2.1 degrees in Homebush , while most of the rest of Sydney averaged between 6 and 7 degrees in the early hours yesterday .

Some suffered more than others , with a blackout caused by an underground cable fault leaving about 1400 households without electric heating for over two hours on Tuesday night .
Homes in Mosman , Condell Park , Cammeray , Avalon and Bondi were all affected .

In rural areas , the NSW State Emergency Service has been helping police patrol numerous iced-over country roads , though no major rescues had been required , an SES spokesman said .

The Great Western Highway between Wallerawang and Raglan and the Mid-Western Highway between Bathurst and Blayney were reopened , but roads around Oberon remained closed late yesterday .

A further light dusting of snow was possible in alpine areas this morning .
`` In terms of the very cold stuff , that 's pretty much gone , '' said Dave Williams , a forecaster at the Bureau of Meteorology .
`` We 'll see a cold wind coming in off the Tasman , but there will be more cloud cover coming in around Friday . ''

A little extra humidity in the air will see temperatures rise at the weekend , and the possibility of some sun will make for fun on the slopes .
`` It 's a bit of a cliche , but all roads will lead to the ski fields this weekend . ''
