A family crisis is the unlikely source of humour in this study of sibling relations .

The Savages

Written and directed by Tamara Jenkins

Rated M

Running time 113 minutes

Showing From Thursday
Cinemas Everywhere

Rating 4/5

Many of us do n't really say goodbye to childhood until our parents die .
We may have our own children and be well past the mid-life point but because our parents live on , our juvenile selves do , too .

So goes the lesson learnt by Wendy Savage ( Laura Linney ) and her brother , Jon ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) , who have been harbouring the illusion that they 're mature , capable human beings until they 're forced to come to the aid of the elderly father they have n't seen in years .
At this point , they become reacquainted with the squabbling siblings of their pre-teen years and all the so-called certainties which have been shoring up their lives begin to come adrift .

I became a fan of Tamara Jenkins , writer-director of The Savages , 10 years ago when she made Slums Of Beverly Hills , which had Alan Arkin as a Jewish father convinced his kids ' futures would be assured if he could send them to school in Beverly Hills .
For him , the 90210 postcode ensured safety as well as status .
It was fairyland .

The same goes for Sun City , Phoenix , the geriatric paradise where The Savages opens with a sunny montage of lawn bowls , golf buggies and aquarobics classes .

It 's as if the pleasures of childhood had been reconfigured for the ageing body .
Then the camera ventures inside one of the houses lining these immaculate streets and the picture flips to the dark side .
Lenny Savage ( Philip Bosco ) and his partner , Doris ( Rosemary Murphy ) , are in trouble .
She 's in the last stages of dementia and his grip on the here and now is n't too firm either .
Then it goes altogether and Wendy and Jon are called in to arrange for the care of a man who never took much care of them even when he was able to .

Jenkins has a great feel for the revelations planted in domestic landscapes .
Wendy , for instance , has pared her life to the point where it 's pretty much contained within her tiny New York City apartment .
From here , she conducts a love affair with Larry ( Peter Friedman ) , her neighbour across the hall , who pops in to have sex with her when his wife thinks he 's walking the dog .
And she earns a living by working as an office temp while applying for grants to finish writing a play .
This embryonic work , she fondly hopes , can be likened to something by Eugene O'Neill .
And that 's about it for her everyday rituals .
Her remaining passions are invested in her cat and her house plant .
And Linney , an actress who can turn emotional cartwheels on the turn of a phrase , makes her hum with wit and tenderness .

Jon 's life is just as constricted .
He 's an academic specialising in the literature of social unrest and his house in upstate New York is appropriately cold , gloomy and chaotic , cluttered with books which nobody but him is allowed to touch .
He pretends to have a filing system , just as he pretends to have a handle on life .
And because of Hoffman 's slow drawl and gruff , no-nonsense delivery , you could almost believe him .
But Wendy knows better .
When he tells her casually that he 's breaking up with his Polish girlfriend of many years because her visa 's expired , she can tell immediately what the split is going to cost him .
But when it comes to their father 's predicament , she 's not so clear-eyed .
Jon has no qualms .
He 's made up his mind .
Lenny must go into a nursing home .

But Wendy wo n't hear of it .
It 's as if she 's awaiting some act of divine intervention which is going to enable her to slot him in alongside the cat , the plant and the part-time lover .
It 's a daydream that does n't last long .
Jon goes home , leaving her to follow with their father , and the plane trip that follows is agony for both of them , although for us , the audience , sitting at a safe distance from the carnage , it 's possible to glimpse bright shards of wicked humour .

Without these mordant touches to light the way , the film would be a very dark experience but on screen , as in life , laughter has a way of bubbling up when you least expect it .
In one scene , Hoffman puts on a neck brace and rigs himself up in traction to relieve a muscle kink .
Things then veer from painful to painfully funny as Wendy unsuccessfully tries to stifle a giggle at the sight of his efforts to eat his dinner while hanging from a door .
At this they both start to laugh and suddenly they 're again sharing the closeness they had as eight-year-olds .

Implicit throughout the film is the sense that the past is always with us , which means childhood can never be completely cast off .
Rather , it 's a state of mind that can recur at any time in life .
But when we leave Jon and Wendy , they 've finally attained the confidence to set aside their childhood selves for a while and concentrate on the joys of being adult .
