As one of the most prominent figures in indigenous arts , Stephen Page hears a lot about reconciliation .
But Page , marking 20 years as the artistic director of Bangarra Dance Theatre , is tired of the term .

`` The word [ reconciliation ] is so overused that sometimes it becomes patronising or ... feels like we 've dried it out , '' he says .

The former NSW Australian of the Year thinks reconciliation is often approached with a misguided belief that it is a sudden event rather than a long process .
Real reconciliation will take generations , he says .

`` I find Western society is always obsessed by ownership and ... when they get on to something , they feel like they have to resolve it and have a product there and then .
I just think there 's too much gone before us in our history .
They should just accept that reconciliation is an ongoing process .  ''

This drive for instant outcomes frustrates him , he says .
So does the lack of funding parity for Bangarra compared with other major performing arts organisations , even though the company `` ticks a lot of boxes '' and is called on regularly to perform as cultural ambassadors , such as in Beijing last year .
The wider issue , Page says , is a lack of national indigenous companies being fostered in other art forms .

`` It 's a shame that art and storytelling in our cultural psyche is n't just as important as sport . ''

However , Page does n't often `` have a whinge '' , as he calls it .
More often he is buoyant as he talks about how Bangarra is `` thriving '' in its work of telling indigenous stories and `` rejuvenating an optimism and a spirit '' that is central to them .

`` Just to survive 20 years in the mainstream , let alone be an indigenous company , is quite a triumph , '' the 46-year-old says .
`` There are a lot of layers and maybe that 's what has given a sense of fast pace to the 20 years . ''

For the past five years , the company of 15 dancers has managed without a principal sponsor .
Still , it finished last year with a $ 48,000 surplus after bringing in almost $ 1.3 million from more than 90 performances .

Finding a principal sponsor remains a priority and Page says it could be close , without going into names .
The company was recently able to hire a philanthropy and sponsorship manager to find more money .
To Page , the time is right for Bangarra to move on a range of `` brewing '' initiatives involving education and support , such as more engagement with western Sydney , regional visits for shows and workshops and remote homeland projects stretching to Arnhem Land .

`` There are initiatives that have come to the surface now that are ready to be born , '' he says .
`` I think it 's just maybe timing now . ''

The company 's passion , vitality and communal spirit are clear as dancers emerge from rehearsals for Belong , which opens tomorrow night .
Some are going over moves or pouring bowls of cereal , others grabbing newly arrived `` hoodies '' for a mentoring program or doing stretches under a wall of photographs from past shows .

Belong comprises two new pieces .
Page 's ID explores indigenous identity and aspects of reconnecting with heritage , something `` a lot of mob '' are doing now , he says .
It fuels his optimism .
Acclaimed Bangarra dancer Elma Kris has created About , tracing the `` mood of the winds '' at key moments .

Like Bangarra 's other shows , Belong has been shaped in consultation with indigenous elders .
Among them is Northern Territory woman Kathy Marika but the company does n't have to go far to find her .
As Bangarra 's artist in residence , she is engrossed in painting in a quiet corner of the building .

Page says ID explores contemporary social issues through a series of vignettes and is more abstract and urban than his last work three years ago , Mathinna .

Page has spoken of having thoughts of leaving Bangarra , satisfied it is firmly established .
But with Belong on tour , as well as directing the theatre piece Bloodland for the Sydney Theatre Company in October and expansion plans at Bangarra , the notion seems far away .

`` I just take each days at it comes , '' he says .
`` There are all these ideas floating around about the evolution of the company and there are always programs to deal with and new initiatives that we 're constantly being inspired by .
I think when those initiatives stop , I suppose , or start to fade away , I 'll know that it 's time to pass the baton on . ''

Belong is at the Opera House Drama Theatre from tomorrow until August 20 .
