This column will not reflect well on me .
So let 's hurry up and get it over with .

The story begins last Saturday night , as I walked up one of the seediest laneways in Kings Cross with three friends , passing wheelie bins and rats and graffiti .
At the end of the lane , under a seedy red light , was a doorway .

When we reached this entrance , the peroxide blond doorboy admitted the first of our number .
With ostentatious bitchiness , he raised his hand as the rest of us moved to enter .
`` Wait .
No , '' he said .
We had been judged and found wanting .
He pointed to one of us .
`` I 'm 50-50 on this guy , '' he said .

Welcome to the world of the secret bar , where , like Max Mosley , patrons pay heaps of money to be humiliated and mistreated .
Tatler in Darlinghurst used to be the classic of the genre , with its nondescript and signless entrance and harsh door policy .
But Tatler has been overtaken by Shh , the bar in the laneway , which only admits patrons given a secret password by the owners -- although the rules are , I 'm sure , flexible if you are famous or look like a model .

Once the doorboy had barred us , I decided secret bars are a dumb , snobby idea .
Pretentious .
Then our friend with the password returned to the doorway to rescue us , had a word with a few people , and we were in .
Admitted under sufferance , ripped off by $23 martinis in a tiny bar , we danced until the morning .
I gradually decided the whole secret-bar idea was quite fun .
The exclusivity was beside the point , of course , it just happened to be a great place to hang out .

Looking back during the week , my behaviour seemed so , like , high school .
We should be old enough not to get caught up in cliques , and yet there I was begging to be let into the cool group .
To better understand this adolescent part of me , this adolescent part of so many of us , I turned to Queen Bees & Wannabes : Helping Your Daughter Survive Cliques , Gossip , Boyfriends & Other Realities Of Adolescence by Rosalind Wiseman .
She quotes Gabrielle , 15 , who explains how in her clique , if you want to invite someone outside the clique to sit with you at lunch , you have to issue a formal invitation so the clique can vote on it .
`` We do this because it 's like buying a shirt without your friends telling you whether you look good in it or not , '' she explains .
`` You may like someone , but you could be wrong . ''

Is this so different from only being allowed into a bar if you are granted a special password by the owners ?

Wiseman tells how , when she goes to classrooms to talk to girls about the issues in her book , there is always one girl who denies that friendship groups are exclusive or snobby .

`` People hang out with the people they want to , '' the girl will say .
`` We just all have our own friends . ''
She is always one of the meanest and most exclusive girls , Wiseman says , and the girls who are not in the cool group respond with disbelief and eye-rolling .

So is this really a world away from me hating Shh when I could n't get in , then deciding it was just a fun place to hang out once I was accepted ?

The social hierarchy of the playground is discussed in Queen Bees & Wannabes .
`` If you want to really understand what your daughter 's world looks like , ask her to draw a map of her school that shows who hangs out where , '' Wiseman writes .

A map drawn by a 16-year-old follows , showing where the popular students sit , the goths , the fat girls , the jocks , the walkway alongside the lunch tables , which is the `` worst strip of walking as far as judging is concerned '' .

Is n't this a bit like the social geography of Kings Cross , with its cool places , daggy places , and places that used to be cool until the daggy people moved in ?

Disturbed as I am by these similarities , I am relieved this phase wo n't last .
Once I grow up , I wo n't recognise myself .
