The Liberal Party must update its 60-year-old modus operandi .

If you are a NSW Liberal Party member then July 22 ca n't come quick enough .
On Saturday the party 's State council will vote on a package of reforms , which everyone from the Prime Minister down hopes will allow the party to cut out the
cancer of defeatism that has plagued it since its 1995 election loss .

Despite this , the party is wasting an opportunity to do what no political party in Australia has done create a new architecture for 21st-century society .
The NSW Liberals must address some of the most serious issues confronting political parties the notion of volunteers and relevance to individuals in modern Western societies .

British Prime Minister Tony Blair and United States President Bill Clinton have seen the need to reinvent their parties and make them accessible to ordinary people whose lifestyles are very different from those political volunteers who went before them .

The Liberal Party has not changed in focus or operation since the party was formed almost 60 years ago .
Its gatherings are still , as ANU academic Ian Hancock recently put it in describing the party of the 1960s , `` meetings [ which ] seem to focus on the formalities '' .
Meetings are held at 7.30 or 8 pm in suburban church halls or private homes .
This culture automatically excludes the increasing number of Australians who do n't work nine to five and , even if they did , need a formal meeting at the end of the day like a hole in the head .

Of greater concern is that these meetings and indeed the party 's overall image of clubbishness and an inward-looking obsession with careerism and factionalism seem to many to manifest John Ralston Saul 's observation that `` we live in a corporatist society with soft pretensions to democracy '' .

So why not use this current reform process to revolutionise how the party communicates with its members and communities , be they physical or virtual ?
Why not consider an online branch or a chatroom where party members can discuss policy ?
Unless political parties embrace new technologies they will find that , once the 30 hardy souls who brave cold winter 's nights to attend another process-driven branch meeting in a church hall die off , there will be nothing left .

And this view should not be seen as alarmist. Robert Putnam , the American anthropologist , conducted a study of voluntary groups in the US titled Bowling Alone .
Putnam found that society is moving away from localised community organisations , such as bowling alleys .
What is replacing these local organisations ?
Putnam is not sure , nor are we .
There are , however , some patterns beginning to emerge .

The technology that started to privatise leisure time almost four decades ago is finally moving on and allowing people to interact with others .
Voluntary organisations should be thinking about how to use this technology to reinvigorate themselves rather than bemoaning it .

History teaches us that to the people who pioneer successfully go the laurels .
