THE Tax Office will examine billions of dollars of deals from the mergers and acquisitions boom -- including capital gains treatment by corporate sellers , the tax paid by private equity funds and the tax paid by investment banks on fees .

The Tax Office will formally announce its 2007-08 corporate compliance program in August .
But Commissioner of Taxation Michael D'Ascenzo made clear yesterday the Tax Office was intent on recouping its share of the extraordinary mergers and acquisition activity , which reached $ 115 billion in 2006-07 , up from $ 47 billion the previous year .

He raised whether assets were being correctly valued for the purpose of capital gains tax , and said he would be `` examining the role of investment banks '' in the deals , and the `` appropriate treatment of fees generated '' .

In singling out private equity , Mr D'Ascenzo confirmed the Tax Office would consider the tax treatment of performance fees for private equity funds .
This has been a contentious issue in the US and England because private equity funds treat these fees under the lower capital gains tax rate rather than the higher company tax rate .

`` It 's certainly one of the things we would be looking at , to see whether or not it is capital , and if it is capital whether it 's [ liable for ] Australian capital gains tax or otherwise , '' he said yesterday .

In a speech to the Australian Institute of Company Directors in Sydney , Mr D'Ascenzo cast a wide net , raising concerns about the tax treatment of stapled trusts -- a common structure used for popular listed investments such as infrastructure funds and real estate investment trusts .
He singled out `` tax planning involving stapled instruments , tax deferred distributions and CGT deferrals '' .

`` If they put it all together for no real purpose than to give a tax position , then that is something we will challenge , '' Mr D'Ascenzo said after the speech .
`` If it 's used for legitimate commercial business reasons , and has its place , tax usually flows from that . ''

Stapled trusts commonly feature a high level of debt , which frequently reduces tax payable on profits .

Frank Drenth , the executive director of the Corporate Tax Association , said stapled trusts had been used for a long time .

`` Does this mean the [ Tax Office ] has concerns about the well-established stapled trust arrangements that are used by the funds management industry to manage billions of dollars of savings for Australians ? '' he asked yesterday .
`` What 's new and what 's the problem ? ''

A spokesman for the Institute of Chartered Accountants , Ali Noroozi , said in relation to private equity and stapled trusts that there needed to be some guidance from the Tax Office about suitable tax treatment .

`` If they are going to take such a proactive approach , then they also need to take a proactive approach to guidance , '' Mr Noroozi said .

Mr D'Ascenzo 's speech raised more generally the Tax Office 's concerns about appropriate use of tax deductible interest payments by companies and trusts , announcing a continuing focus on debt-equity hybrids and a review of companies ' use of `` thin capitalisation '' rules , which prevent companies from having too much debt .

`` Some businesses are disclosing large accounting profits to their shareholders and the market but returning low levels of taxable income or even tax losses , '' Mr D'Ascenzo said .

He also announced a `` real-time '' review of a company 's tax return at lodgement , to avoid the situation of company being hit with revised tax bills five years after the event .
