John McFarlane from ANZ has in effect just thumbed his nose at the remaining three big trading banks by declaring himself out of the pack in terms of strategy and , ultimately , in terms of size .

While the banking and insurance industries in Australia have been fixated over the past couple of years on aggregating financial products and cross-selling these to their extensive customer bases , it seems McFarlane is now telling them that , in his estimation at least , this is a play that brings with it longer-term risks .
Either he is smarter than his contemporaries at rival trading banks and has worked out how to add shareholder value in a small and crowded market , or he is a man too far ahead of his time .
In other words , McFarlane could fall foul of the adage that no-one is a prophet in their own time , or he may be the one who reshapes the Australian banking market .

The changes outlined by McFarlane represent a radical approach , given ANZ 's position as one of the big four in Australian financial services .

In the short term it would certainly have been safer for him to pursue the same strategy as his peers of bulking up on cross-selling .
He has not actually been forced into an alternative course of action because ANZ is the smallest of the big four and does n't do enough by way of non-bank products .

However , it would be also fair to say that if he were sitting in the seat of David Murray at CBA , he would probably not have pursued the same course .
With CBA 's vast consumer banking franchise , moving into specialist high-margin banking services would be silly .

But ANZ is just small enough to undertake this audacious move and maybe just smart enough to pull it off .
McFarlane has distinguished himself in Australian banking more as an innovator than strategist .
He is generally more entrepreneurial than his counterparts demonstrated by his ready adaptation to information technology and e-commerce .

So where does he put ANZ in , say , five years ?

To begin with , it will not be a traditional full service bank , though it may still have consumer banking activities .
It will be an organisation that specialises in certain areas of financial services a Macquarie Bank , not a
Westpac .
Not because it will offer the same products as Macquarie , but because it will concentrate its efforts on a range of high-margin products and services .

ANZ will not be about size ; it will be about return .
So it 's not about general customers , but about higher-margin customers and products , be they in the business or domestic market .

Which market segments will ANZ pursue ?
McFarlane was a bit fuzzy on this question .
The first step is to break up the overall business into a large number of units ANZ has identified 21 to begin with , but says this might double by the time the exercise is completed .

Breaking these businesses up will be more expensive in the short term .
For example , three branch networks will be created the first for general banking , the second for small and medium-sized businesses and the third in the area of wealth creation ( which seems to mean the higher net-worth individual ) .
The idea is that specialist branch or call centres will be able to service and market to these segments better .

So , in this respect , the risk is that the synergies of a full-service bank will be lost while the evolution is under way .

What will be left at the end of the process depends on which of the business units performs the best .
It may be that some of the units will end up being joint ventured , some will be spun off , some sold and others closed .
For example , in general banking ANZ might ultimately undertake a joint venture with St George or even Westpac .

McFarlane sees globalisation and technology as the enablers for this new world of banking .
He believes these two facts have allowed niche players to cherry pick the high margin end of the business and eventually will threaten the margins of the traditional operators who are attempting to service all segments
 of the markets through the one brand .

The strangest part of this strategy is that , right now , ANZ is everything it does n't want to be .
It is a full-service bank offering the full range of financial service products .
It has the high-cost branch network associated with a full-scale trading bank .
Breaking up the business into 21 operating units is just a full-service bank with a lot of parts .
At this stage the change is merely definitional .
McFarlane would argue the line has to be drawn at some stage and now is as good a time as any .

There is no doubt his is a welcome departure from the strategy documents of the other banks .
McFarlane himself is supremely confident the downside is very limited and the upside is next to boundless .
