Name : `` George Peter Kapiniaris . ''

Claim to fame ?
`` For the past 26 years I 've been a film , TV , theatre , music and stand-up performer ; I have n't done any other job apart from writing and drama teaching .
Some people think that 's quite an accomplishment ; sometimes I wish I had a normal nine-to-five job like 99 % of actors in this country .
My claim to fame would have to be Acropolis Now and all the Wog shows that I 've created and been a part of ( Memo being the most famous of my roles ) , but there are many more milestones in my career including the lawyer in Underbelly ( Eddie told me I was n't allowed to say his name ) .
And for Adelaide readers , I 've been the RAA Insurance guy for the last decade . ''

Favourite coffee in Melbourne ?
`` Bill 's Cafe in Tunstall Square , Donvale .
The guy 's a genius , and tall , even though I like my lattes short and without a handle . ''

Favourite place to get a meal ?
`` Hellenic Republic for a fun dinner and The Press club for a serious dinner .
Both are owned by George Calombaris and both have recipes that he 's pinched off his mum .
Favourite ` meal event ' would have to be The Pantry Cooking Show at The Pantry in Brighton , with shows put on by the greatest showman chefs in the world , my favourites being George Calombaris , Guy Grossi , Manu , Pete Evans and Frank Camorra . ''

Favourite shop ?
`` Gallin 's Guitar Shop in Nunawading ; I love guitars , I go in there and dream of one day owning all of them .
Every classic Gibson and Epiphone model available , the Les Paul and Flying V being my favourites .
I do n't really want to play them , just stand in front of the mirror and try on different outfits while holding them .
Is that weird ?
In fact when I think of them I start to cry ; I imagine little Epiphone mandolins with little bows in baskets... oh no , I 'm turning into the YouTube cat lady . ''

Favourite Melbourne memory ?
`` First time I saw the Tigers play at the MCG ; I was in grade six and I got a free ticket off my teacher at Yarra Park Primary .
Royce Hart was on fire that day in the famous number four .
Our current number four [ Dustin Martin ] is a bit like that too .
No doubt my two young boys will be wearing that number to the footy when they go to their first game .
That 's if they barrack for the Tigers ! ''

What 's your best-kept Melbourne secret ?
`` People think I 'm Greek ; I 'm actually Scottish .
I just did it so I could get a gig on Melbourne TV .
With 500,000 Greeks living in this city , I could n't go wrong ! ''

What are you working on at the moment ?
`` I 've just finished a film called Big Mamma 's Boy , which will be opening in cinemas on July 28 -- a day after my birthday -- as well as touring around the country with the Standup show Il Dago 2 , which is cruising towards our 300th performance .
Pretty good for a show that was launched three years ago at the Melbourne International Comedy Festival ! ''

George 's Favourites :

Hellenic Republic -- 434 Lygon Street , Brunswick , 9381 1222
The Press Club -- 72 Flinders Street , Melbourne , 9677 9677
Gallin 's Musician 's Pro Shop -- 145 Whitehorse Road , Blackburn , 9877 0689
The Pantry -- 1 Church Street , Brighton , 9591 0393
