Population-boosters have focused on two key arguments to convince us that we need a big Australia : ageing and skills .

Australia has an `` ageing crisis '' , they say , and importing younger migrants is the way to deal with it .
But the Productivity Commission dismissed this last year in Population and Migration : Understanding the Numbers , concluding that `` realistic changes in migration levels ... make little difference to the age structure of the population in the future , with any effect being temporary '' .
Now attention has turned to the `` skills shortage '' and `` demand for labour '' arguments .

Apparently we need skilled migrants to fill all sorts of gaps -- most notably to dig up and sell our finite , mineral assets .
This is despite the fact mining is highly mechanised and , at a little more than 200,000 workers , makes up less than 2 per cent of Australia 's workforce .

A report yesterday from the Centre for Population and Urban Research at Monash University confirms the mining boom does not justify large-scale immigration .
It says , `` the bulk of current migration has little to do with providing scarce skills to the resource industries '' and concludes that `` Australia needs a lower , but better-targeted , immigration program '' .

So why do the doors remain open ?
Because the lazy way for big business to make more profit is to increase its customer base .
The Australia Institute recently found that bank profits are now running at $ 1000 for every man , woman and child in Australia .
Double the population and you effectively double those profits .
No wonder their media-savvy `` chief economists '' spruik population growth .

It 's not just the business lobby feeding us the lines .
The Immigration Minister , Chris Bowen , says our migration program is focused on resolving skills shortages .
But a review of his department 's data clearly shows this is wrong .
In 2009-10 , Australia 's quota of just more than 180,000 permanent migrants included about 108,000 in the skilled migrant category .

But a huge portion of that category -- about 56 per cent of the so-called skilled stream -- consists of the direct family dependants of skilled migrants , as `` secondary '' applicants .
So only about 47,000 -- or one in four -- of Australia 's permanent migrants are bringing designated skills .

The key to our skills predicament is that dependants , family-reunion entrants and refugees dominate the permanent migration program and create a big annual net skills deficit because of the services they require .
Most are not tested for the specific skills we need but still demand skills from doctors , teachers , engineers and accountants , to name a few .
This fuels a vicious circle of skills shortages and inflationary pressure on wages .

As for the uncapped 457 visa scheme , which dominates the temporary skilled-migration program , the 2009-10 data shows about half of the 70,000 migrants under this `` skilled '' program were dependants too .
Meanwhile we have an uncapped open-borders agreement with New Zealand and more than 30,000 Kiwis move here each year without skills testing .

But the proof of the pudding is in the eating .
A recent Bureau of Statistics report found unemployment among skilled migrants and their families is 30 per cent higher than for the population as a whole .
A Sydney University migration expert , Dimitria Groutsis ,concluded : `` This highlights the fact that the skilled migration program is not working . ''

The skills shortage in Australia really began in 1788 .
All the population growth since then , including recent record immigration , has failed to fix it .
The dog will never catch its tail .
Structural skills shortages are a part of every economy .

The only way to minimise them is to stabilise the population and invest in education and training , which are disincentivised by high immigration .
Australia has more than two million people of working age that are unemployed , under-employed or not engaged in the workforce .
Youth unemployment ( 15-24 years ) alone is nearly 20 per cent .
They must be our priority.

Just months after Julia Gillard promised to `` stop , take a breath '' , Mr Bowen announced the biggest permanent migration program in Australian history .
The 2011-12 program will bring 199,750 more people and again be dominated by dependants , family reunions and refugees .
The government must explain why it runs an unsustainable migration program that exacerbates skills shortages and erodes quality of life .

William Bourke is national convener of the Stable Population Party .
