THE editor-in-chief of The Australian , Chris Mitchell , got an anguished phone call about 6.30 yesterday morning from the Commissioner of the Australian Federal Police , Mick Keelty .

A front-page story detailed the interviewing of terrorism suspect Mohamed Haneef by federal police .

`` Keelty said ' There is all hell breaking loose with the Government about this and I need to be able to say it did not come from us [ the police ] ' , '' Mitchell said .

`` And I said OK . ''

Mr Keelty was still unhappy when he was interviewed by ABC radio .
The leak of the transcript had undermined the prosecution 's case against Haneef , he said .

`` We now have a published document that has provided information that should never have been provided until the court had an opportunity to hear it for the first time and test the veracity of that evidence , '' he said .

`` I have spoken to the editor of The Australian today and he assures me that the documents did n't come from any police sources. ''

Mr Keelty said he and the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions were exploring whether the leak was an offence , such as contempt of court .

Haneef 's solicitor , Peter Russo , denied leaking the document .
Later , Haneef 's barrister , Stephen Keim , outed himself as the source .

Mr Keim admitted his actions were unorthodox but argued it was an exceptional case .
`` Most defence lawyers would n't release a record of interview but most defence lawyers do n't have a record of interview like that ,'' he said .
`` I decided that it was important that the public had the evidence on which to make a decision and that evidence is there . ''

The Attorney-General , Philip Ruddock , said the leak of the transcript was unethical and said newspapers had a responsibility to consider national security before publishing .
But when pressed on The Australian 's article , Mr Ruddock seemed to water down his comments .

`` Newspapers have interests in relation to readership and the public interest .
They receive information and they elect to publish , '' he said .
`` And I would caution people against promoting arguments in the public arena that are going to be addressed in the courts , but I do n't think there are any legal limitations that I am aware of about dealing with that information that comes to them . ''

He said later that media should consider sub judice rules as a court may view the matter as a possible contempt .

Two journalists with News Ltd , publisher of The Australian , were recently convicted of contempt of court for refusing to reveal the source of a story about a Government plan to cut veterans ' benefits .

The Herald yesterday asked Mitchell if it was appropriate for him to have narrowed the scope of possible leakers in view of the code that journalists do not reveal their sources .

Mitchell said it was `` bleeding obvious '' that the interview had not come from the federal police because it was more favourable than damaging to Haneef .
`` It seems to me I was only confirming the self-evident , '' Mitchell said .
