Snow , gales and ice made roads even more difficult to negotiate for homeward-bound motorists on the last day of the school holidays .

Winds gusting at more than 100 kmh brought down trees and powerlines along the eastern seaboard after Saturday night had already delivered what the State Emergency Service called the worst snowstorm for three years .

At the storm peak , more than 6000 homes , mostly in the Southern Highlands , had lost electricity .
Last night hundreds of homes were still waiting to be reconnected .

The Monaro Highway , Great Western Highway and Bells Line of Road were all closed by snow yesterday .

Main roads in Sydney were also affected by wild weather , including Victoria Road at Gladesville , Anzac Parade in the east and George Street in the city , where a hanging window pane caused a traffic bank-up .

The SES had 570 calls for help , mostly along the coast , and sent 400 volunteer repairers .

`` We seldom have snow to this extent and to this depth , '' said an SES spokeswoman , Laura Goodwin , adding that many people arrived home to find roof damage .

Snow fell the length of the Great Dividing Range , from Cooma in the south to Guyra , including the Blue Mountains .

A spokesman for the Bureau of Meteorology predicted more wild weather today : `` We 're not expecting much of a moderation , and there 's a secondary surge coming through tomorrow , due to the continuing low off the coast . ''

Despite the havoc , temperatures in Sydney were only 2 degrees below average , the Bureau of Meteorology said .

An RTA spokeswoman said sightseers going to the mountains to see snow had caused additional traffic problems .

Manly ferries were stopped yesterday morning and replaced with buses for the day .

A spokesman for Sydney Ferries , Matthew Martyn-Jones , said : `` Seas were very rough .
We could n't run the boats on the Manly service because it 's unsafe to tie up at Manly Wharf . ''

Fallen trees and branches closed Botany Bay National Park South , and debris and fallen wires blocked roads across the city .

Perisher Blue resort 's spokesman , Neil Thew , said the snowfields were full on the last day of school holidays .

`` It 's still very cold up here and snowing on or off , close to minus 10 with the windchill .
We 've had 20 centimetres in last 20 hours . ''

A road safety policy specialist for the NRMA , Anne Morthpeet , said it was a good day to stay home , a fact reflected in a normal Sunday workload for road service crews .

`` Better roads can sometimes make people a little complacent , '' Ms Morthpeet said .

`` The highways to the snow used to be much worse than they are now .
They 're good roads , and they hold cars at high rates of speed .
But you ca n't drive like that on days like this . ''
