The inquiry into Australia 's spy services will find there was a failure of intelligence before the Iraq war and the Bali bombings , and will recommend a boost to intelligence analysis and training .

The much anticipated outcome of the inquiry , conducted by Philip Flood , a former intelligence chief and secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade , will deliver two reports to the Prime Minister , John Howard , this week .

One report will be classified , while the other will be for public consumption .

Canberra sources say Mr Flood made a detailed examination of the performance of the intelligence agencies before the war and their ability to identify Jemaah Islamiah as a threat before the Bali bombings in October 2002 .

On both counts , it is understood , he found there was a failure of intelligence .
In the case of JI , the blame lies largely with the Australian agencies and the way they interacted with the US .

Before the Iraq war , most mistakes were made by US and British agencies that share information with Australia .

However , it is understood that Mr Flood finds Australian agencies failed to analyse the information on Iraq 's weapons of mass destruction rigorously enough to establish its bona fides .

As foreshadowed by the Herald , Mr Howard gave testimony before Mr Flood , as did the Minister for Defence , Robert Hill , and the Minister for Foreign Affairs , Alexander Downer .

The intelligence community is awash with speculation that the Office of National Assessments , the premier intelligence agency that reports directly to Mr Howard , will be substantially enlarged in the wake of the report .

The office was sharply criticised by an earlier parliamentary inquiry into the intelligence services after it hardened its position on Iraq before two speeches in which the Government recommended invasion .
One was made by Mr Howard in February 2003 , the other by Mr Downer in September 2002 .

The inquiry found the changes disturbing and unexplained .

Mr Flood , a former head of the ONA , is expected to report on whether there was any politicisation of the agency or the Government applied direct pressure on the spy agencies .

A source close to the inquiry said : `` There 's a large focus on trying to look forward .
There 's quite a few recommendations on what can be done to improve the intelligence community and the quality of the advice . ''

It is understood that many of those recommendations focus on the recruitment , training and management of intelligence officers .

The report finds there are inadequate language skills in crucial areas .
These are thought to be Arabic and other languages especially important in the war against terrorism .
Further training and skills development in relation to Islam and terrorism are also believed to be recommended .

It is also understood that Mr Flood finds that some intelligence officers are blocked from advancing to the upper echelons of the six intelligence agencies , with senior positions being handed out to bureaucrats instead .

Mr Flood closely examined five of the agencies : the Office of National Assessments , the Defence Intelligence Organisation , the Defence Imagery and Geospatial Organisation , the Defence Signals Directorate and the Australian Secret Intelligence Service .

The performance of ASIO , which is responsible for domestic intelligence , was touched on but not scrutinised , sources say .

Senator Hill told Meet the Press yesterday that Mr Flood would examine issues including the extent of overlap between agencies and the depth of their resources .

Water police drafted to terror front line -- Page 2
